Open up a world of opportunity Your guide to Welcome to your step-by-step guide to IELTS. It contains the key things you need to know about the test so you feel confident and fully prepared for test day. Ready for the next step into your future? Read on we re here to help you succeed on your IELTS journey. Your potential your future IELTS is the International English Language Testing System designed to assess and award your ability to study work Recognised and succeed where English is spoken. With IELTS your by over 12 500 potential is recognised and valued by thousands of organisations organisations around the world universities employers worldwide professional bodies immigration authorities government agencies and more. For a full list of possibilities visit IELTS.org Who-Accepts-IELTS. Your globally trusted English language test IELTS is produced and developed by some of the world s leading experts in language assessment. This means you Every year can be confident that your test score reflects your true millions of people level of English language ability. Every year millions of take IELTS people trust IELTS to take their first step into a world of opportunity. Where will IELTS take you? About the test There are two IELTS tests to choose from depending on your needs Academic or General Training. We recommend you check directly with the institution or organisation you are applying to to see which test you need to take. Choose the right test for you General I want to Academic Training study at undergraduate or postgraduate level train or study at below degree level register with a professional body migrate to an English-speaking country Find out more about IELTS for UK Visas and Immigration at IELTS.org UnitedKingdom. About the test sections IELTS has four sections Listening Reading Writing and Speaking. The total time for the four sections is 2 hours and 45 minutes. You take the Listening Reading and Writing tests on the same day with no breaks in between them. Your Speaking test may take place on the same day as the other tests or up to a week before or after the other tests. If you take IELTS Online IELTS Academic test only your Speaking test will usually take place before your other tests. You take your Speaking test face-to-face or via video call with one of our friendly and highly trained IELTS Examiners. Choose how and where to take IELTS IELTS gives you choice and flexibility in how and where you take your test. You can decide which option works best for you. IELTS in a test centre We have test centres in over 4 000 locations across the world. You can take your test on paper or on a computer. The test questions and format are the same. The only difference is the way you give your answers. IELTS Online You can take IELTS Online IELTS Academic test only in your own home or a suitable private location with a stable internet connection. The test has the same format as IELTS taken at a test centre. The Speaking test is completed in an online video call with one of our friendly and highly trained IELTS Examiners. Find out how and where you can book your IELTS test at IELTS.org How-To-Register. Access arrangements We have a wide range of services to make sure IELTS is fair for everyone. We can provide support for certain medical conditions hearing and visual impairments and specific learning difficulties. If you need any access arrangements such as extra time or a modified version of the test please make sure you let your test centre know at least six weeks before your test. Learn more about access arrangements at IELTS.org Access-Arrangements. Your four-skills test IELTS tests all four language skills in separate sections. Here s a simple guide to what you can expect Listening 30 minutes You will listen to four recorded texts two monologues and two conversations. You will hear the recordings once only. Different accents including British Australian New Zealand and North American are used. Part 1 A conversation between two people set in an everyday social context e.g. a conversation in an accommodation agency. Test Part 2 A monologue set in an everyday social context e.g. a speech format about local facilities. Part 3 A conversation between up to four people set in an educational or training context e.g. a university tutor and a student discussing an assignment. Part 4 A monologue on an academic subject e.g. a university lecture. There are 40 questions. A variety of different question types are used. Reading 60 minutes IELTS Academic three sections For each section you will be given one long reading passage with tasks. All the topics are of general interest to students at undergraduate Test or postgraduate level. format The texts may be written in different styles and may contain diagrams graphs or illustrations. The texts will come from a variety of sources e.g. books journals newspapers . There are 40 questions. A variety of different question types are used. Reading 60 minutes IELTS General Training three sections You will be presented with five or six texts of varying length with tasks. Section 1 contains two or three short texts or several shorter Test texts on everyday topics. format Section 2 contains two short work-related factual texts. Section 3 contains one longer text on a topic of general interest. The texts will come from a variety of sources e.g. advertisements company handbooks official documents books newspapers . There are 40 questions. A variety of different question types are used. IELTS opened doors to a new country endless learning opportunities and the chance to meet diverse individuals from around the world ... I have now successfully graduated and got myself placed in a good job to create a brighter future for myself and my family. Vineetha Deepak Karira Writing 60 minutes IELTS Academic Task 1 You are given a graph table chart or diagram and are asked to describe the visual information in your own words. You are asked to write at least 150 words in about 20 minutes. IELTS General Training Task 1 You respond to a situation for example Test by writing a letter asking for information or explaining a situation. format You are asked to write at least 150 words in about 20 minutes. IELTS Academic and IELTS General Training Task 2 You are given a point of view argument or problem which you need to discuss. You are asked to write at least 250 words in about 40 minutes. Speaking 11 14 minutes Part 1 4 5 minutes The Examiner asks you general questions about yourself and a range of familiar topics such as home family work studies and interests. Part 2 3 4 minutes You will be given a card which asks you to Test talk about a topic. You will have 1 minute to prepare before format speaking for up to 2 minutes. The Examiner may then ask one or two questions on the same topic. Part 3 4 5 minutes The Examiner asks more questions that are connected to the topic of Part 2. These questions give you an opportunity to discuss more abstract issues and ideas. Answering for Listening Reading and Writing For IELTS on paper you write your answers on an answer sheet. For IELTS on computer and IELTS Online you write them on computer. At the end of the Listening test for IELTS on paper you have an extra 10 minutes to transfer your answers from the question paper to an answer sheet. There is no additional time to transfer your answers for the Reading test. Top tips for preparing for your test We want to help you succeed so we have a wide range of preparation materials and resources to support you Familiarise yourself with the test format 1 Learn more about each section of IELTS and get to know the test format in more detail Learn more about IELTS Academic at IELTS.org Academic-Test. Learn more about IELTS General Training at IELTS.org General-Training-Test. Use our free preparation resources 2 On our website you can find lots of helpful resources. From apps videos and webinars to books articles and courses the IELTS Partners have everything you need to succeed. Find preparation resources at IELTS.org Prepare. Practise using sample questions 3 These will help you become confident with the test format so you know what to expect on test day. We have different sample tasks for IELTS on paper and on computer and for IELTS Online. You can also find sample answer sheets for the different test sections and information on how to complete them. Familiarise yourself with the way you choose to take your test at IELTS.org Sample-Tests. Sign up for a preparation course 4 IELTS test centres and language schools around the world offer IELTS preparation courses to help improve your performance in the test. Find a test centre IELTS.org Test-Centres. Follow us on social media 5 Join our community of aspiring test takers on our IELTS social media channels. As well as top tips for preparing for your test you ll also get to meet past test takers and find out what they ve achieved since IELTS. IELTSOfficial IELTSOfficial What to expect on test day If you feel ready and know what to expect you ll be confident and more relaxed on test day. Here are just a few of our top tips to help you perform at your best Be prepared Double-check the date time and location of your test. Follow the instructions Read each question carefully so you fully understand what it s asking you to do. Watch the time Some questions have suggested time limits to help you so try and stick to them. Relax You ve read all our guidance and you re fully prepared so now you can take your test with confidence. Read our full list of top tips at IELTS.org On-Test-Day. Your results You prepared for IELTS you took the test and now you re just waiting for your results. So what happens next? Your result will be reported on a 9-band scale from 1 the lowest to 9 the highest . All formats of IELTS use the same scoring system. Band score Skill Level Description 9 Has fully operational command of the language. Use of English is Expert appropriate accurate and fluent and shows complete understanding. Has fully operational command of the language with only occasional 8 unsystematic inaccuracies and inappropriate usage. May Very good misunderstand some things in unfamiliar situations. They handle complex and detailed argumentation well. Has operational command of the language though with occasional 7 inaccuracies inappropriate usage and misunderstandings in some Good situations. Generally handle complex language well and understand detailed reasoning. Has an effective command of the language despite some inaccuracies 6 Competent inappropriate usage and misunderstandings. Can use and understand reasonably complex language particularly in familiar situations. Your IELTS Has a partial command of the language and copes with overall meaning score 5 Modest in most situations although they are likely to make many mistakes. Should be able to handle basic communication in their own field. 4 Basic competence is limited to familiar situations. Frequently show Limited problems in understanding and expression. 3 Conveys and understands only general meaning in very familiar Extremely limited situations. Frequent breakdowns in communication. No real communication is possible except for the most basic 2 information using isolated words or short formulae in familiar situations Intermittent and to meet immediate needs. Has great difficulty understanding spoken and written English. 1 Essentially has no ability to use the language beyond possibly a few Non-user isolated words. 0 Did not attempt No assessable information provided. the test Learn more about how IELTS is scored at IELTS.org Scores. You won t have to wait long to receive your results. The timing depends on which type of test you took Receiving your results IELTS on paper 13 days after your test IELTS on computer 1 5 days after your test IELTS Online 6 8 days after your test We ll send you an IELTS Test Report Form TRF as official confirmation and proof of your test results. It will either be a paper copy or a digital version eTRF and will look like this Test Report Form GENERAL TRAINING NOTE Admission to undergraduate and post graduate courses should be based on the ACADEMIC Reading and Writing Modules. GENERAL TRAINING Reading and Writing Modules are not designed to test the full range of language skills required for academic purposes. It is recommended that the candidate s language ability as indicated in this Test Report Form be re-assessed after two years from the date of the test. To find out more about IELTS IELTS band scores and the CEFR levels please visit ielts.org scores Centre Number 101IH Date 27 APR 2022 Candidate Number 000200 Candidate Details Family Name COOPER TR First Name s SHELDON Candidate ID AB12314 Confirming FS Date of Birth 01 01 1905 Sex M F M Scheme Code Private Candidate your results Country or Region of Origin Country of am ALBANIA Nationality First Language ARABIC Test Results ple Overall CEFR Listening 8.5 Reading 8.5 Writing 8.5 Speaking 7.5 Band 8.5 B1 Level Score Administrator Comments Validation stamp Recognising organisations must verify this score at ielts.org verify Test Report Date 05 05 2022 2110000001DAVF1IHA Form Number IELTS is jointly owned by the British Council IDP IELTS and Cambridge University Press Assessment It s easy to share your IELTS Test Report Form with the Sharing organisations you want to apply to. They will be able to verify your your results results using our IELTS Results Service. To help you feel confident going into your IELTS test we ve developed IELTS One Skill Retake. If you didn t show your full potential in one of the four skills Retaking listening reading writing or speaking IELTS One Skill Retake your test can help you get back on track. Learn more at IELTS.org IELTS-One-Skill-Retake. If you prefer you can retake the whole test when you feel ready. Learn more about receiving and sharing your results at IELTS.org Results. I dream I believe I am here to achieve British Council IDP IDP Education Cambridge University IELTS USA 1 Redman Place Limited Press Assessment 570 Broad Street Stratford London Melbourne Quarter Shaftesbury Road Suite 1003 Newark E20 1JQ Tower 2 Cambridge CB2 8EA NJ 07102 USA United Kingdom Level 10 697 Collins St United Kingdom Docklands Victoria 3008 Australia takeielts.org ielts.idp.com cambridgeenglish.org ielts ieltsusa.org IELTS is jointly owned by the British Council IDP IELTS and Cambridge University Press Assessment. ENG 4032728744 V3 AUG24 2024 Cambridge University Press Assessment